20120531 美国《2011年度国别人权报告》
=====================================

美国《2011年度国别人权报告》中文版内容节选及英文版全文
------------------------------------------------------

2012年5月26日

fengfeiwolf

发表评论

阅读评论

中国（包括西藏，香港，澳门）

中华人民共和国的中国（中华人民共和国）是一个独裁的国家，中共党（共产党）宪法是至高无上的权威。中国共产党党员几乎控制了所有的政府，警察和军事据点。最高权力属于由25个成员组成的政治局（中共政治局）和9名常委。胡锦涛拥有最强大的三个位置，作为中国共产党总书记，主席，中央军事委员会主席。政府当局保持有效控制安全部队。

恶化的主要方面，该国的人权状况继续。镇压和压迫，尤其是对组织和个人参与权利的宣传和公共利益的问题，常规。个人和团体视为具有政治敏感性的当局继续面临严格限制他们的自由组装，宗教信仰，和旅行。努力压制政治活动家和公众利益的律师被加强了，并且，越来越多，当局采取法外措施包括强迫失踪，“软拘留，“严格的软禁，包括软禁的家庭成员，防止公共表达独立见解。公益律师事务所，在敏感的情况下继续受到骚扰，取消律师资格的法律工作人员，和关闭。当局增加企图限制言论自由和控制媒体，互联网，和互联网接入。当局继续严重的文化和宗教压迫的少数民族在新疆维吾尔族自治区（自治区）和藏族地区。左右达到顶峰侵犯大型活动，如参观外国官员，敏感的纪念日，并针对互联网呼吁“茉莉”革命的抗议。

和前几年一样，公民没有改变政府的权利。其他人权问题在一年包括：法外处决，包括处决未经正当程序；强迫失踪、单独监禁，包括长期在非官方持有非法拘留设施被称为“黑狱”；酷刑和逼供犯人；拘留和骚扰律师，记者，作家，持不同政见者，上访者，和其他谁寻求和平行使其权利的法律；缺乏审判；政治控制的法院和法官；封闭式试验；使用行政拘留；限制自由组装，宗教信仰，和旅行；未能保护难民和寻求庇护者；对其他国家施加压力，被迫返回中国公民；严格审查和限制非政府组织（非政府组织）；对妇女的歧视，少数民族，和残疾人；强制性的限制生育政策，在某些情况下导致强迫血型扭曲或强迫绝育；贩运人口；禁止独立的工会和缺乏保护工人的罢工权利；以及使用强迫劳动，包括监狱劳动。腐败仍然很普遍。

当局起诉了一些滥用权力，特别是关于腐败。然而，内部纪律程序的共产党是不透明的，这是不清楚的是，人权和行政行为是一贯的惩罚。

1节。尊重的完整的人，自由包括：分享

A

.任意或非法剥夺生命

在这一年据说保安部队任意或非法杀戮。在许多情况下，很少或根本没有资料可。没有官方统计数字，在羁押中死亡了。

虽然没有官方统计数字有关羁押中的死亡报告，某些情况下收到的媒体报道。六月，媒体报道，居民在湖北省利川市国会大厦外抗议后跑建新死在警察拘留。然，利川市议员，五月二十六日被捕涉嫌受贿和六月四日去世而被审问。亲戚们说，他们发现伤口和擦伤了他的身体，相信他死于非命。照片在网上流传明显跑的身体覆盖伤痕。

九月村民吴坎，广东省，从事地方政府官员的示威抗议出售土地村。官员问村民委代表解决的问题。谈判失败后，当局拘留了一些代表在十二月十一日。十二月十三日，当地政府宣布，被拘留的代表之一，薛金帛，死于心脏骤停而被拘留。薛的亲戚，谁看见他的身体，认为他被折磨致死。当地检察官否认指控，并告诉媒体，薛历史的哮喘和心脏病。

刑事被告人被处决后，信念，缺乏适当程序和足够的渠道呼吁。八月十八日，李林东，卡车司机轧死了一个民族的蒙古族牧民在五月十日在内蒙古锡林浩特市，被处决。李的原始试验，六月九日，只持续了六个小时。死亡的蒙古族牧民引发了大规模的抗议活动在内蒙古。B

.失踪

媒体，和图书出版商是附属于党和政府机构。有少数出版物印刷一些私人所有权的利益，但没有私人拥有的电视或广播电台。中国共产党针对国内媒体不要报道某些科目，和所有广播节目需要政府批准。七月二十九日，备受瞩目的七月二十三日后，高速铁路在温州坠毁，中共发出紧急指示命令所有出版物停止计划覆盖的火车相撞后一周的激烈的覆盖面的问题在传统和社会媒体。许多出版物坚持严格控制的出版空白空间中的设限文章抗议禁言令的前夕，一个重要的哀悼日，在中国文化。

暴力和骚扰：限制外国记者的中央和地方中共宣传部门仍然严格，尤其是在敏感时期和纪念日。外国新闻报道，当地雇员外国新闻机构也受到官方的骚扰和恐吓。

二月二十七日，至少有六名外国记者被殴打的便衣安全人员在北京采访时，预期的集会和相关的安全镇压的繁华商业区，北京市区的王府井。便衣警察把其他记者和摄影师到小巷或商店和删除图像从相机。后来，安全官员夜间访问一些西方记者在他们的公寓，警告他们合作的行为或可能失去他们的工作许可证。

根据外国记者俱乐部，五个外国受访者签证威胁或签证延期。一些记者明确告知，发放签证是与内容相关的报告。在记者的调查中，百分之70名经验丰富的干扰或骚扰在一年；百分之40说，其来源是骚扰，拘留，或被审问与外国记者；百分之33说他们的中国助手遇到压力或资深官员的骚扰。

有限政府出席政府官方新闻发布会，国内媒体；国外媒体和外交官只被允许参加简报会由外交部和一些新闻发布会举行特别活动。

当局继续实施严格限制公民的外国新闻机构。中国员工的行为规范外国媒体组织威胁解雇和认可损失为中国雇员从事“独立报”并指示他们提供他们的雇主的信息项目良好的国家形象。外国记者协会谴责中国的行为守则，作为政府努力恐吓他们的中国员工。

官员可以惩罚擅自与记者接触。官方指南的记者往往是模糊的，主题更改权宣传部门的官员，并追溯执行。宣传消防当局强迫报纸编辑和记者负责文章认为不符合官方政策和暂停或关闭出版物。该系统由宣传官员鼓励周后出版审查的自我审查编辑寻求避免损失与处罚不经意间印刷非法内容。政府官员使用的刑事诉讼，民事诉讼，和其他惩罚，包括暴力，拘留，和其他形式的骚扰，恐吓作家和新闻记者和防止传播有争议的作品。国内记者会面临降级或失去工作的意见，挑战政府出版。

在八月陈中，总统的南窗，著名政治杂志在广州日报集团，被解雇，因为他负责出版的八月四日的一篇题为“狭隘的民族主义和外交政策，根据在线报告。本文讨论的努力，孙中山领导的1911次革命，推翻清王朝，赢得日本支持通过牺牲国家利益被认为有争议的当局。

记者们仍然在监狱中包括陆gengsong，鲁建华，与石涛。维吾尔网站管理员迪力夏提·帕尔哈提，nureli阿萨特，和尼加提·阿扎提继续担任句子为“危害国家安全”。维吾尔记者买买提江·阿布杜拉被判入狱四月2010报发送“颠覆性”的相关信息七月2009暴动。在这一年的记者工作在传统和新媒体的来源也被囚禁。保护记者委员会（保护记者委员会）十二月监狱人口普查报告，27个已知的记者被监禁在该国，是藏族和维吾尔族六人10。保护记者委员会记录的新案件在一年监禁。

双方的婚姻法和法律保护妇女权益的规定，直接禁止家庭暴力；然而，一些专家抱怨说，规定过于笼统，无法界定家庭暴力，和难以实施。由于司法标准排除所有不合理的怀疑，“即使判断确定家庭暴力的发生，他或她可以不规则对滥用者没有吸毒者的自白。只有百分之10的被指控者承认暴力行为对家庭，根据2009个数据所适用的法律，一个智囊团与法院系统。收集的证据在家庭暴力案件仍然困难：研究所报道，40至百分之60的婚姻家庭案件涉及家庭暴力；然而，不到百分之30的人能够提供的间接证据，包括照片，医院的记录，警方的记录，或儿童的证词。证人不出庭作证。

性骚扰：在法律保护妇女权利进行了修正，2005包括禁止性骚扰，数量的性骚扰投诉明显增加。2009哈佛大学研究性骚扰的国家表明，百分之80的工作妇女在该国被性骚扰的经历在某一阶段的职业生涯。同样的研究发现，只有百分之30的性骚扰索赔由妇女成功。

创办的教育培训业务在深圳被判监禁在一年后的女性雇员告诉警察，他强奸了她。他被宣判后，其他员工报告它们已被强奸或骚扰他吧。

根据信息的访问网站，妇女谁已被性骚扰已经越来越获得有用的信息，并通过互联网法律服务热线。北京人权律师告诉全国妇联，大约100至200000000的妇女在该国遭受的痛苦，或是在工作场所的性骚扰，但一些法律服务中心提供咨询服务。

生殖权利：政府限制父母的权利选择自己的孩子数量。国家法律禁止使用身体胁迫人提交强迫堕胎或绝育。然而，激烈的压力达到设定的目标，政府法规限制生育有时导致当地计划生育官员使用强制满足政府的目标。这种做法包括强制使用节育和堕胎的未经授权的怀孕。在案件的家庭，已经有2个孩子，父母一方往往是被迫接受绝育手术。

国家计划生育部门转向重点从降低生育率保持低生育率和计划生育的做法，强调服务质量。在2010个代表国家人口和计划生育委员会报告说，百分之85的育龄妇女使用某种形式的避孕。其中，百分之70使用可逆的方法。然而，中国的计划生育政策保留严厉强制元素，在法律和实践。财务和行政处罚未经授权的出生是严格的。

从二月到四月的2010，徐州在江苏省是该网站的一个引人注目的法庭诉讼中，30岁的女性原告起诉当地计划生育局，声称她被禁止公务员在县政府为生孩子结婚之前。虽然她嫁给了父亲在孩子出生不久后，法院裁定，计划生育局原有的法令，以出生的非婚生子女，这使她不适合政府定位。十二月2010在泰州，江苏，在一个类似的案件涉及男性原告，法院裁定，原告也没有男性公务员职位。2002次全国人口和计划生育的法律规范实施政府的计划生育政策；然而，实施差别很大。该法赋予了已婚夫妇有权有一个出生，允许符合条件的夫妇申请允许第二胎是否符合规定条件的地方和省规定。独生子女政策更严格地应用在城市地区，只有能够满足某些条件的夫妇被允许有一个孩子（例如，如果每个准父母只有一个孩子）。在大多数农村地区，政策更加宽松，夫妻允许第二胎的情况下，第一个孩子是女孩。少数族群受到更严格的规则。全国，百分之35的家庭的独生子女的限制下，超过百分之60的家庭有资格有一个孩子，要么直接或如果符合一定的标准。剩下的百分之5个有资格有超过2个孩子。根据政府的统计，平均生育率为1.8（占全国妇女儿童的数量每个育龄妇女有）；在该国人口最密集、繁华的城市，上海，生育率0.8。

国家人口和计划生育委员会报告说，所有省份被淘汰birth-approval要求前的第一个孩子是设想，但各省仍可能继续要求家长“注册”怀孕之前，生下他们的第一个孩子。这个“登记”的要求可以作为阿德事实上的许可证制度在一些省份，由于一些地方政府继续强制堕胎的单身妇女，谁怀孕。省和地方各级实施罚款的未婚母亲。

条例要求妇女谁违反计划生育政策终止怀孕仍然存在，在第二十五，第四十二，和第二十二规定的人口和计划生育控制的辽宁，吉林，和黑龙江省，分别为。一个额外的10个省份——福建，贵州，广东，甘肃，江西，青海，四川，山西，陕西，和云南——需要指定的“补救措施”，擅自处理怀孕。

根据国家政府对煤矿安全（sacms），有一个百分之20.4的人数减少煤矿事故在头七个月的一年。一些人死于煤矿事故在此期间下降了百分之31，从去年同期的1083人死亡。

锯和美国劳工部从事煤矿安全交流促进发展改善安全程序和协议。十一月2010sacms下令所有煤矿完成安装新设备，包括煤矿监控设备，风机，水上用品，通讯系统，提高煤矿安全。尽管死亡率下降率和实行的规定sacms，重大煤矿安全问题。

暑假期间，超过80的煤炭和铁矿石矿工被困在地下事件之后，在四个单独的矿山。50多名矿工被困在矿井事故分别在山东省火灾之后，在煤矿和铁矿淹没轴。十几名矿工被困在一个煤矿塌方后，在大连，辽宁省，23名矿工被困在淹没的煤矿在广西壮族自治区，贵州省。在六月晚些时候，八名矿工死亡，五人受伤，非法铁矿在福建省永定县的倒塌。据政府官员，谁知道事故由当地居民，警方拘留中国（包括西藏，香港，西藏和澳门）

美国承认西藏自治区（焦油）和藏族自治州、县在外省的一部分，人民共和国的中国（中华人民共和国）。中共党（共产党）中央委员会统战部，杜青林为首的2007年底以来，负责中华人民共和国的西藏政策。正如在其他主要是少数民族地区的中国，汉族党员几乎控制了所有的政府，警察和军事据点，在焦油和其他藏族地区。最高权力属于由25个成员组成的政治局（中共政治局）和9名常委在北京。陈全国成功作为焦油党委书记张庆黎在八月二十五日。政府当局保持有效控制安全部队。

焦油和其他藏族地区继续受到越来越激烈的和规范化的系统控制，其中许多似乎是旨在促进执行“社会稳定”和破坏宗教权威的达赖喇嘛。政府试图控制所有方面的藏传佛教寺院和宗教实践等手段强制“爱国主义教育”和“教育”运动的修道院，强制谴责达赖喇嘛，建立永久和安全人员在场的修道院，并在确定和培训（活佛转世的喇嘛），挑起抵抗行为，其中藏族人口，谁看到了作为一个威胁的基础，西藏独特的宗教，语言，文化身份。这些抵抗行为，反过来，导致增强试图通过中华人民共和国当局保持控制，从而创造周期的镇压，导致越来越绝望行为的西藏人，等一系列的自焚事件的藏传佛教神职人员和非专业人员在中国西藏地区。

有严重的压制言论自由，宗教，协会，和运动。当局继续犯下严重侵犯人权的行为，包括法外处决，酷刑，任意逮捕，非法拘留和软禁。保护和发展西藏独特的宗教，文化，和语言遗产和独特的高原环境仍然是一个问题。在前几年，当局加紧控制语音，旅行，装配，和宗教实践中的焦油和其他藏族地区之前和期间的政治敏感期，如第三周年游行示威和骚乱的2008在藏族地区，遵守“农奴解放日”，三月二十八日（见与学术自由保护文化遗产），成立第九十周年的七月一日，和第六十周年的“和平解放”西藏七月十九日。政府严格控制信息，并获得，焦油和藏族地区以外的焦油，因此很难准确地确定范围的侵犯人权的行为。

2008个后果抗议继续影响人权状况在藏族地区的中华人民共和国。人民武装警察（酶）存在保持在较高水平，在许多社区在青藏高原。在各大寺院的焦油和其他藏族地区以外的焦油被守卫的安全部队，许多商店在拉萨三月十四日的周年标记和警察镇压示威。学生和僧侣在一些地区被拘留后要求自由、人权和表达他们的支持达赖喇嘛。剥夺lifeshare

有报道称，政府或其代理人提交任意或非法杀戮；然而，它是不可能独立核实所有这些报告。目前还没有报告的官员调查或惩罚那些负责杀戮。

民事诉讼程序和救济

有一个独立和公正的司法和民事事项，公民获得法院提起诉讼，要求赔偿，或停止，违反人权。

F

.任意干涉隐私，家庭，家庭，或信件

法律禁止这种行为，而政府的普遍推崇这些禁令在实践。在个人数据保护局承认不断增加的投诉和查询数据保护。

2节。尊重公民自由，包括：分享

A

.言论和新闻自由

地位的言论和新闻自由

该法规定的言论和新闻自由，和政府普遍尊重这些权利在实践中。

法律对维护国家安全（第23的基本定律），生效于2009年度3月份，把双方的承诺和”行为的制备“叛国，分裂国家，颠覆中华人民共和国政府，并窃取国家机密。犯罪的叛逆，分裂，和颠覆指定使用暴力，和政府指出，法律也不会侵犯和平的政治运动和媒体自由。

新闻自由：独立媒体的活性和表达的广泛意见，和国际媒体运作的自由。主要报纸大量由政府补贴和往往紧跟中国政府的政策对敏感的政治问题，如台湾；然而，他们普遍报告在特区政府，包括批评政府的报道。

暴力和骚扰：一些记者谁写的问题的政府抱怨不当处分，如临时停牌，推迟促销，和编辑将他们分配到不重要的故事。在六月一个新闻编辑收到了恐吓信警告他不要宣传关注国有广播公司的内部管理和领导问题。审查或内容的限制：活动家担心一些媒体的自我审查，特别是由于这一事实，新闻媒体和记者担心一些批评性的报道可能会限制政府的资助。

互联网自由

目前还没有政府限制访问互联网或可信的报告，政府监控电子邮件或互联网聊天室。个人和团体可以参与表达观点的通过互联网，包括通过电子邮件。

打击计算机犯罪的法律规定，各种网络犯罪，使警察，法院令，为互联网服务提供商保存和提供的数据范围。一些立法者表示关切的是，法律赋予警察当局采取这些行动没有法院命令的情况下。

媒体报道说，一些网站，其中脸谱网，视频，和公司，这是中国大陆封锁，封锁对政府提供的免费无线上网服务。政府拒绝任何企图限制访问，认为主要问题是现有的带宽，指出移动版本的脸谱网提供。推特，这是禁止在大陆，可用。

学术自由和文化活动

目前还没有政府限制学术自由或文化活动。

B

.和平集会和结社的自由

集会自由

该法规定的集会自由，和政府普遍尊重这一权利实践。法律要求事先通知，但不批准，示威。在案件中，当局试图限制进入公共场所或者公共示威事件，法院通常排除在一侧的申请人。警察可以重定向行军路线，和组织者有权决定在法庭上挑战。

五月一日，大约2300名工人表明没有重大事件，虽然警察阻止记者拍照。执法宣称这是帮助记者从中搬运车。法院裁定指控记者证明由于缺乏证据。活动家称抗议是平静的在这一年因为政府已经给出了现金支付者的争议可能2010日。

自由联想

基本法，民法提供自由协会。没有要求授权，结社，和唯一的限制是组织宣扬暴力，犯罪，或扰乱公共秩序。在今年上半年，鉴定局注册的383个新的协会，但没有问题”证明收养协会名称“33例因故意组名称相同或类似的注册机构。

英文版

文（下）

Country Reports on Human Rights Practices for 2011 China (includes Tibet, Hong Kong, and Macau) The People’s Republic of China (PRC) is an authoritarian state in which the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) constitutionally is the paramount authority.

CCP members hold almost all top government, police, and military positions.

Ultimate authority rests with the 25-member Political Bureau (Politburo) of the CCP and its nine-member Standing Committee.

Hu Jintao holds the three most powerful positions as CCP general secretary, president, and chairman of the Central Military Commission.

Civilian authorities generally maintained effective control of the security forces.

Deterioration in key aspects of the country’s human rights situation continued.

Repression and coercion, particularly against organizations and individuals involved in rights advocacy and public interest issues, were routine.

Individuals and groups seen as politically sensitive by the authorities continued to face tight restrictions on their freedom to assemble, practice religion, and travel.

Efforts to silence political activists and public interest lawyers were stepped up, and, increasingly, authorities resorted to extralegal measures including enforced disappearance, “soft detention,” and strict house arrest, including house arrest of family members, to prevent the public voicing of independent opinions.

Public interest law firms that took on sensitive cases continued to face harassment, disbarment of legal staff, and closure.

The authorities increased attempts to limit freedom of speech and to control the press, the Internet, and Internet access.

The authorities continued severe cultural and religious repression of ethnic minorities in Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region (XUAR) and Tibetan areas.

Abuses peaked around high-profile events, such as the visit of foreign officials, sensitive anniversaries, and in response to Internet-based calls for “Jasmine Revolution” protests.

As in previous years, citizens did not have the right to change their government.

Other human rights problems during the year included: extrajudicial killings, including executions without due process; enforced disappearance and incommunicado detention, including prolonged illegal detentions at unofficial holding facilities known as “black jails”; torture and coerced confessions of prisoners; detention and harassment of lawyers, journalists, writers, dissidents, petitioners, and others who sought to peacefully exercise their rights under the law; a lack of due process in judicial proceedings; political control of courts and judges; closed trials; the use of administrative detention; restrictions on freedom to assemble, practice religion, and travel; failure to protect refugees and asylum seekers; pressure on other countries to forcibly return citizens to China; intense scrutiny of and restrictions on nongovernmental organizations (NGOs); discrimination against women, minorities, and persons with disabilities; a coercive birth limitation policy that in some cases resulted in forced abortion or forced sterilization; trafficking in persons; prohibitions on independent unions and a lack of protection for workers’ right to strike; and the use of forced labor, including prison labor.

Corruption remained widespread.

The authorities prosecuted a number of abuses of power, particularly with regard to corruption.

However, the internal disciplinary procedures of the CCP were opaque, and it was not clear whether human rights and administrative abuses were consistently punished.

Section 1.

Respect for the Integrity of the Person, Including Freedom from:Share a.

Arbitrary or Unlawful Deprivation of Life During the year security forces reportedly committed arbitrary or unlawful killings.

In many instances few or no details were available.

No official statistics on deaths in custody were available.

Although no official statistics regarding deaths in custody were reported, some cases received media coverage.

In June the media reported that residents in Hubei Province protested outside a Lichuan City government building after Ran Jianxin died in police custody.

Ran, a Lichuan councilman, was arrested May 26 on suspicion of having accepted bribes and died June 4 while being interrogated.

Relatives said they found wounds and bruises on his body and believe he died an unnatural death.

Photos circulated on the Internet apparently showed Ran’s body covered in bruises.

In September villagers in Wukan, Guangdong Province, engaged in demonstrations against local government officials to protest the sale of village land.

Officials asked the villagers to appoint representatives to address www.mingxing.cc the issue.

After negotiations failed, the authorities detained some representatives on December 11.

On December 13, local government announced that one of the detained representatives, Xue Jinbo, had died of cardiac arrest while in custody.

Xue’s relatives, who saw his body, believed he had been tortured and beaten to death.

A local prosecutor denied the allegations and told media that Xue had a history of asthma and heart disease.

Defendants in criminal proceedings were executed following convictions that lacked due process and adequate channels for appeal.

On August 18, Li Lindong, a truck driver who ran over and killed an ethnic Mongol herder on May 10 in Inner Mongolia’s Xilinhot City, was executed.

Li’s original trial, on June 9, lasted just six hours.

The death of the Mongol herder had sparked large-scale protests in Inner Mongolia.

b.

Disappearance At year’s end authorities continued to hold ethnic Mongolian activist Hada, his wife, and his son in detention without trial or pressing formal charges.

Hada had been released from prison in December 2010, after serving a 15-year prison sentence on espionage and separatism charges.

Hada founded the Southern Mongolia Democracy Alliance, which called for a referendum on the future of the province of Inner Mongolia.

The whereabouts of prominent rights lawyer Gao Zhisheng, who had represented Christians and Falun Gong practitioners, remained unknown until December 16, when a Beijing court reimprisoned him for a period of three years for alleged “parole violations” during the period of his five-year suspended sentence.

Gao had been forcibly disappeared since August 2009, with the exception of a brief reappearance in Beijing in spring 2010.

At year’s end the government had not provided a comprehensive, credible accounting of all those killed, missing, or detained in connection with the violent suppression of the 1989 Tiananmen demonstrations.

In September the Duihua Foundation, an international human rights NGO, estimated that fewer than 10 remained in prison, although other estimates were higher.

Many activists who were involved in the demonstrations continued to suffer from official harassment.

c.

Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman, or Degrading Treatment or Punishment The law prohibits the physical abuse of detainees and forbids prison guards from extracting confessions by torture, insulting prisoners’ dignity, and beating or encouraging others to beat prisoners.

In July 2010 rules went into effect that exclude evidence, including confessions, obtained under torture in certain categories of criminal cases.

However, numerous former prisoners and detainees reported that they were beaten with fists and water bottles, subjected to electric shock, forced to sit on stools staring at the wall for hours on end, deprived of sleep, and otherwise subjected to physical and psychological abuse.

Some of these abuses occurred during the year.

Although ordinary prisoners were subjects of abuse, political and religious dissidents were singled out for particularly harsh treatment.

In some instances close relatives of dissidents were singled out for abuse.

On September 13, Guo Feixiong (aka0 Yang Maodong) was released from Guangdong Province’s Meizhou Prison after five years in custody.

Family members and lawyers who had met with Guo during the five years reported to the media that while in prison Guo was subjected to electric shocks, beatings, and other torture.

On February 19, lawyer Jiang Tianyong was detained and severely beaten for two nights.

He was made to sit motionless for up to 15 hours a day and interrogated repeatedly.

He said he was also threatened and humiliated.

He said his interrogators told him: “Here we can do things in accordance to law.

We can also not do things in accordance to law, because we are allowed to do things not in accordance to law.” Jiang was released in April and never charged with a crime or formally arrested.

In February the UN Committee Against Torture (UN CAT) reiterated its deep concern about the routine and widespread use in the country of torture and mistreatment of suspects in police custody, especially to extract confessions or information used in criminal proceedings.

UN CAT acknowledged government efforts to address the practice of torture and related problems in the criminal justice system.

Many acts of torture allegedly occurred in pretrial criminal detention centers or Re-education Through Labor (RTL) centers.

There were widespread reports of activists and petitioners being committed to mental health facilities and involuntarily subjected to psychiatric treatment for political reasons.

According to China News Weekly, the Ministry of Public Security (MPS) directly administers 22 high-security psychiatric hospitals for the criminally insane (also known as ankang facilities).

From 1998 to May 2010, more than 40,000 persons were committed to ankang hospitals.

In May 2010 an MPS official stated in a media interview that detention in ankang facilities was not appropriate for patients who did not demonstrate criminal behavior.

However, political activists, underground religious believers, persons who repeatedly petitioned the government, members of the banned Chinese Democracy Party (CDP), and Falun Gong adherents were among those housed with mentally ill patients in these institutions.

Regulations governing security officials’ ability to remand a person to an ankang facility were not clear, and detainees had no mechanism for objecting to claims of mental illness by security officials.

Patients in these hospitals reportedly were medicated against their will and forcibly subjected to electric shock treatment.

The UN Economic and Social Council reported that less than 2 percent of women between the ages of 15 and 24 were illiterate.

According to 2008 official government statistics, women comprised more than 70 percent of all illiterate persons above the age of 15.

In some underdeveloped regions, the female literacy rate lagged behind the male literacy rate by 15 percent or more.

While the gap in the education levels of men and women narrowed, differences in educational attainment remained a problem.

Men continued to be overrepresented among the relatively small number of persons who received a university-level education.

According to Ministry of Education statistics, in 2008 women accounted for 50 percent of undergraduate students, 46 percent of postgraduate students, and nearly 35 percent of doctoral students.

Women with advanced degrees reported discrimination in the hiring process as the job distribution system became more competitive and market driven.

According to the 2010 national census, the national average male-female sex ratio at birth was 118 to 100.

Sex identification and sex-selective abortion (commonly referred to as the “Two Nons”) were prohibited under administrative law, but the practices continued because of traditional preference for male children and the birth limitation policy.

Children Birth Registration: Citizenship is derived from the parents.

Parents must register their children in compliance with the national household registration system within one month of birth.

Children not registered cannot access public services.

No data was available on the number of unregistered births.

Education: The law provides for nine years of compulsory education for children.

However, in economically disadvantaged rural areas, many children did not attend school for the required period and some never attended at all.

Public schools were not allowed to charge tuition; however, faced with insufficient local and central government funding, many schools continued to charge miscellaneous fees.

Such fees and other school-related expenses made it difficult for poorer families and some migrant workers to send their children to school.

According to a 2008 UN Development Program report, the urban-rural gap in literacy rates of young persons had narrowed, from 6 percent in 1990 to 1.6 percent in 2005.

The proportion of girls attending school in rural and minority areas was reportedly smaller than in cities; in rural areas 61 percent of boys and 43 percent of girls completed education higher than lower middle school.

The government reported that nearly 20 million children of migrant laborers followed their parents to urban areas.

Most children of migrant workers who attended school did so at schools that were unlicensed and poorly equipped.

Medical Care: Female babies suffered from a higher mortality rate than male babies, contrary to the worldwide norm.

State media reported that infant mortality rates in rural areas were 27 percent higher for girls than boys and that neglect was one factor in their lower survival rate.

Child Abuse: Kidnapping and buying and selling children for adoption increased over the past several years, particularly in poor rural areas.

There were no reliable estimates of the number of children kidnapped; however, according to media reports, as many as 20,000 children were kidnapped every year for illegal adoption.

Most children kidnapped internally were sold to couples unable to have children, particularly sons.

Those convicted of buying an abducted child may be sentenced to three years’ imprisonment.

In the past most children rescued were boys, but increased demand for children reportedly drove traffickers to focus on girls as well.

In 2009 the Ministry of Public Security started a DNA database of parents of missing children and children recovered in law enforcement operations in an effort to reunite families.

Sexual Exploitation of Children: By law those who force young girls (under age 14) into prostitution may be sentenced to 10 years or more in prison or given a life sentence, in addition to a fine or confiscation of property.

If the case is especially serious, they are to be given a life sentence or sentenced to death, in addition to confiscation of property.

Those inducing young girls (under age 14) into prostitution are to be sentenced to five years or more in prison in addition to a fine.

Those who visit young female prostitutes (under age 14) are to be sentenced to five years or more in prison in addition to paying a fine.

According to the law, the minimum age of consensual sex is 14.

Pornography of any kind is illegal, including child pornography.

Under the criminal code, those producing, reproducing, publishing, selling, or disseminating obscene materials with the purpose of making a profit may be sentenced up to three years in prison or put under criminal detention or surveillance, in addition to paying a fine.

Offenders in serious cases may receive prison sentences of three to 10 years, in addition to paying a fine.

If the case is especially serious, they are to be sentenced to 10 years or more in prison or given a life sentence, in addition to a fine or confiscation of property.

Persons found disseminating obscene books, magazines, films, audio or video products, pictures, or other kinds of obscene materials, if the case is serious, may be sentenced up to two years in prison or put under criminal detention or surveillance.

Persons organizing the broadcast of obscene motion pictures or other audio or video products may be sentenced up to three years in prison or put under criminal detention or surveillance, in addition to paying a fine.

If the case is serious, they are to be sentenced to three to 10 years in prison in addition to paying a fine.

The law provides for an independent judiciary, and the government generally respected judicial independence in practice.

The judiciary provided citizens with a fair and efficient judicial process.

The courts may interpret those provisions of the Basic Law that address matters within the limits of the SAR’s autonomy.

The courts also interpret provisions of the Basic Law that touch on central government responsibilities or on the relationship between the central authorities and the SAR.

However, before making final judgments on these matters, which are not subject to appeal, the courts must seek an interpretation of the relevant provisions from the Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress (NPC/SC).

The Basic Law requires that courts follow the NPC/SC’s interpretations, although judgments previously rendered are not affected.

As the final interpreter of the Basic Law, the NPC/SC also has the power to initiate interpretations of the Basic Law.

The NPC/SC’s mechanism for interpretation is its Committee for the Basic Law, composed of six mainland and six Hong Kong members.

The CE, Legco president, and chief justice nominate the Hong Kong members.

Human rights and lawyers’ organizations expressed concern that this process, which can supersede the Court of Final Appeal’s power of final adjudication, could be used to limit the independence of the judiciary or degrade the court’s authority.

In September the Court of Final Appeal requested the NPC/SC’s interpretation, for the first time since the former British colony returned to Chinese rule in 1997, on a sovereign immunity case involving the Democratic Republic of the Congo.

Activists complained that the court did not need to seek Beijing’s input and that doing so jeopardized Hong Kong’s judicial autonomy.

The court claimed that the case involved a foreign policy issue, and it was therefore bound by the Basic Law to seek the NPC/SC’s interpretation.

Trial Procedures The law provides for the right to a fair public trial, and an independent judiciary generally enforced this right in practice.

Trials were by jury except at the magistrate and district court level.

An attorney is provided at the public’s expense if defendants cannot afford counsel.

Several activists complained that legal aid did not provide attorneys who were interested in committing significant attention to their pro bono clients.

Defendants can confront and question witnesses testifying against them and present witnesses to testify on their behalf.

Defendants and their attorneys have access to government-held evidence relevant to their cases.

Defendants have the right of appeal.

Defendants enjoy a presumption of innocence except in official corruption cases.

Under the law a current or former government official who maintained a standard of living above that commensurate with his or her official income, or who controls monies or property disproportionate to his official income, is guilty of an offense unless he can satisfactorily explain the discrepancy.

In practice, the courts upheld this ordinance.

Court proceedings were conducted in either Chinese or English, the SAR’s two official languages.

Political Prisoners and Detainees There were very limited reports of political prisoners or detainees.

Following artist Ai Weiwei’s detention in mainland China in April, Hong Kong police detained two local activists who protested Ai’s treatment.

Activists claimed Beijing pressured Hong Kong police to assign officers from their serious crimes units to apprehend a Hong Kong street artist who painted images of Ai and wrote “Who’s Afraid of Ai Weiwei” on pavements and public buildings throughout Hong Kong.

When activists chalked copycat drawings, police detained several before eventually releasing them.

Civil Judicial Procedures and Remedies There is an independent and impartial judiciary for civil matters and access to a court to bring lawsuits seeking damages for, or the cessation of, human rights violations.

f.

Arbitrary Interference with Privacy, Family, Home, or Correspondence The law prohibits such actions, and the government generally respected these prohibitions in practice.

The law provided that no personal data may be used for a purpose other than that stated at the time of its collection without the data subject’s consent.

Specific exemptions allowed SAR authorities to transfer personal data to permit prevention, detection, or prosecution of a crime when certain conditions were met.

Data may be transferred to a body outside of the SAR for purposes of safeguarding the security, defense, or international relations of the SAR or for the prevention, detection, or prosecution of a crime, provided conditions set out in the ordinance were met.

The Office of the Privacy Commissioner for Personal Data worked to prevent the misuse, disclosure, or matching of personal data without the consent of the subject individual or the commissioner.

The use of covert surveillance and the interception of telecommunications and postal communications can be granted only to prevent or detect “serious crime” or protect “public security.” The law establishes a two-tiered system for granting approval for surveillance activities, under which surveillance of a more intrusive nature requires the approval of a judge, and surveillance of a less intrusive nature requires the approval of a senior law-enforcement official.

Applications to intercept telecommunications must involve crimes with a penalty of at least seven years’ imprisonment, while applications for covert surveillance must involve crimes with a penalty of at least three years’ imprisonment or a fine of at least HK$1 million (approximately US$129,000).

Section 2.

Respect for Civil Liberties, Including:Share a.

Freedom of Speech and Press Status of Freedom of Speech and Press